CHAPTERS XV AND XVI OF ROMANS
THIS IS A LIBROVOX RECORDING
ALL LIBROVOX RECORDINGS ARE IN THE PUBLIC DOMAIN
FOR MORE INFORMATION OR TO VOLUNTEER
PLEASE VISIT LIBROVOX DOT ORG
RECORDING BY SIMON WAYNRIGHT
THE EPISODE OF PAUL TO THE ROMANS
KING JAMES' VERSION
CHAPTER XV
We then, that are strong, ought to bear the infirmities of the weak,
and not to please ourselves.
Let every one of us please his neighbor, for his good to edification.
For even Christ pleased not himself, but, as it is written,
the reproaches of them that reproached thee fell on me.
For whatsoever things were written for time were written for our learning,
that we, through patience and comfort of the scriptures, might have hope.
Now the God of patience and consolation grant you to be like-minded,
one toward another according to Christ Jesus,
that ye may with one mind and one mouth glorify God,
even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Wherefore receive ye one another as Christ also received us to the glory of God.
Now I say that Jesus Christ was a minister of the circumcision,
for the truth of God to confirm the promises made unto the fathers,
and that the Gentiles might glorify God for his mercy,
as it is written,
for this cause I will confess to thee among the Gentiles,
and sing unto thy name.
And again he saith,
Rejoice ye Gentiles with his people.
And again, praise the Lord all ye Gentiles,
and laud him all ye people.
And again Isaiah saith,
There shall be a root of Jesse,
and he that shall rise to reign over the Gentiles in him shall the Gentiles trust.
Now the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace,
in believing that ye may abound in hope through the power of the Holy Ghost.
And I myself also am persuaded of you, my brethren,
that ye also are full of goodness,
filled with all knowledge able also to admonish one another.
Nevertheless, brethren,
I have written the more boldly unto you in some sort,
as putting you in mind because of the grace that is given to me of God,
that I should be the minister of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles,
ministering the gospel of God,
that the offering up of the Gentiles might be acceptable,
being sanctified by the Holy Ghost.
I have therefore,
whereof I make glory through Jesus Christ in those things which pertain to God,
for I will not dare to speak of any of those things which Christ hath not wrought by me
to make the Gentiles obedient by word and deed.
Through mighty signs and wonders by the power of the Spirit of God,
so that from Jerusalem and round about unto Euryseum,
I have fully preached the gospel of Christ.
Yea, so have I strived to preach the gospel,
not where Christ was named,
lest I should build upon another man's foundation.
But, as it is written,
to whom he was not spoken of,
they shall see,
and they that have not heard shall understand,
for which cause also I have been much hindered from coming to you.
But now, having no more place in these parts,
and having a great desire these many years to come unto you,
when soever I take my journey into Spain,
I will come to you.
For I trust to see you in my journey,
and to be brought on my way through the word by you,
if first I be somewhat filled with your company.
But now I go unto Jerusalem to minister unto the saints,
for it hath pleased them of Macedonia and Achaia
to make a certain contribution for the poor saints,
which are at Jerusalem.
It hath pleased them verily,
and their debtors they are.
For if the Gentiles have been made partakers of their spiritual things,
their duty is also to minister unto them in carnal things.
When therefore I have performed this,
and have sealed to them this fruit,
I will come by you into Spain.
And I am sure that when I come unto you,
I shall come in the fullness of the blessing of the gospel of Christ.
Now I beseech you, brethren,
for the Lord Jesus Christ's sake,
and for the love of the Spirit,
that you strive together with me in your prayers to God for me,
that I may be delivered from them that do not believe in Judea,
and that my service which I have for Jerusalem may be accepted of the saints,
that I may come unto you with joy by the will of God,
and may with you be refreshed.
Now, the God of peace be with you all.
Amen.
Chapter 16
I commend unto you, Phoebe, our sister,
which is a servant of the church,
which is at Sincrea,
that ye receive her in the Lord as becomeeth saints,
and that ye assist her in whatsoever business she hath need of you,
for she hath been a succorer of many and of myself also.
Greet Priscilla and Aquila, my helpers in Christ Jesus,
who have for my life laid down their own necks,
unto whom not only I give thanks,
but also all the churches of the Gentiles.
Likewise, greet the church that is in their house.
Salute, my well-beloved, Epinetus,
who is the firstfruits of Achaea, unto Christ.
Greet Mary, who bestowed much labor on us.
Salute Andronicus and Jania, my kinsmen,
and my fellow prisoners,
who are of note among the apostles who also were in Christ before me.
Greet Amplius, my beloved, in the Lord.
Salute Urbain, our helper in Christ.
And Statis, my beloved.
Salute Appelles, approved in Christ.
Salute them which are of Aristobulus's household.
Salute Herodion, my kinsmen.
Greet them that be of the household of Narcissus,
which are in the Lord.
Salute Trifina and Trifossa, who labor in the Lord.
Salute the beloved Percissus, which labored much in the Lord.
Salute Rufus, chosen in the Lord, and his mother and mine.
Salute Asencritus, Philegon, Hermas, Petrobus, Hermes,
and the brethren which are with them.
Salute Philologus and Julia, Nereus and his sister,
and Olympus and all the saints which are with them.
Salute one another with an holy kiss.
The churches of Christ salute you.
Now I beseech you, brethren, mark them which cause divisions and offenses
contrary to the doctrine which ye have learned, and avoid them.
For they that are such serve not our Lord Jesus Christ, but their own belly,
and by good words and fair speeches deceive the hearts of the simple.
For your obedience is come abroad unto all men.
I am glad therefore on your behalf.
But yet I would have you wise unto that which is good and simple concerning evil.
And the God of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen.
Timotheus, my work fellow, and Lucius and Jason, and so Sipater, my kinsmen, salute you.
I, Tertius, who wrote this epistle, salute you and the Lord.
Gaius, mine host, and of the whole church, saluteth you.
Arrestus, the chamberlain of the city, saluteth you.
And Quartus, a brother, the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
Now to him that is of power to establish you according to my gospel and the preaching of Jesus Christ,
according to the revelation of the mystery which was kept secret since the world began,
but now is made manifest, and by the scriptures of the prophets,
according to the commandment of the everlasting God made known to all nations for the obedience of faith.
To God, only wise, be glory through Jesus Christ forever. Amen.
End of chapter 16, reading by Simon Wainwright.
End of the epistle of Paul to the Romans, King James Version.